---
layout: post
title: "One Touch To Email Zero"
subtitle: "How I Spend Less Than 15 Minutes On Email Everyday"
date: 2022-07-28 06:00:00 +0530
background: '/img/posts/post-email-howto.jpg'
tags: productivity how-to
permalink: '/2022-inbox-zero/'
---

<h5 class="western">Is Inbox Zero a Myth? No. Here's what I did.</h5>

<p class="text-justify">I spend less than 15 minutes on email every day - 15 minutes is absolutely insignificant compared to my total worktime. It was not always like this. A couple of weeks ago, I stumbled upon an interesting <a href="https://fortelabs.co/blog/one-touch-to-inbox-zero/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" style="text-decoration:none">article</a> which underlined the philosophy - <i>the key to Inbox Zero is to touch each email only once</i> - and I was completely sold on that idea.</p>

<p class="text-justify">As someone who gets (on an average) 10-15 works emails and another 15-20 emails on my personal id, my inbox was always full and cluttered. At one point in time, I had more than 100 unread emails - which, given the person I am, was unimaginable. It was then I started looking out for a well designed and a simple system to solve my email woes.</p>

<h5 class="western">Quick guide</h5>

<p> <ul class="text-justify">• First, <em>UNSUBSCRIBE</em> from every newsletter, notification list, and broadcast list that isn’t absolutely essential. You should also batch delete unimportant emails (who want's unnecessary emails taking space anyway?!).</ul></p> 

<ul class="text-justify">• Second, strip down email to its core fuction - communication. For everyhing else, you have other dedicated apps/services. Your email is to send message and not to journal or set reminders and to-dos.</ul>

<ul class="text-justify">• Third, if you have more than one email address (say, one for work and one for peesonal stuff - just like I do) it is important to segregated your mails. If someone from work mails you in your personal id, DO NOT repsond it from your personal id. Instead, forward his/her/their email to your work email and reply. This might seem to be extra work, but trust me it pays off in the long run.</ul>

<ul class="text-justify">• Fourth, downstream your emails. Here's what you should know about downstream -</ul> 
<ul><blockquote class="blockquote" "text-justify"><a href="https://fortelabs.co/blog/one-touch-to-inbox-zero/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" style="text-decoration:none">Every conceivable email you receive can be handled by just 4 downstream systems: a digital calendar, a task manager, a reference app, and a read later app.</a></blockquote></ul>
<ul>My preferred services are - <a href="https://calendar.google.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" style="text-decoration:none">Google Calandar</a>, <a href="https://ticktick.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" style="text-decoration:none">TickTick</a> for my to-do lists, <a href="https://getpocket.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" style="text-decoration:none">Pocket</a> is my go to read-it-later serivce, and <a href="https://keep.google.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" style="text-decoration:none">Google Keep</a> for my notes. </ul>

<ul class="text-justify">• Fifth, I believe in the 15 seconds rule - I glance at the subject and the sender and taken no more than 15 seconds to go through the major parts of the email. If I think it's an important email, I take my time to read it carefully and respond immediately. If it is not important and needs no furthur action, I straightway do one of the two things - achive or delete. I usually do not delete email - I mostly archive them. Over the years I have trained myself not to open an email if I cannot repsond instantly. If there are more than one unread emails, I usually open the oldest first and work my way up.</ul>
